DOCSP-41990: Authentication mechanisms (#139)
mongodb/docs-php-library: source/security/authentication.txt

.. _php-auth:

=========================
Authentication Mechanisms
=========================

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

.. facet::
   :name: genre
   :values: reference
 
.. meta::
   :keywords: authorize, secure, connect, code example

Overview
--------

This guide describes the mechanisms you can use in the {+driver-short+} to authenticate
users.

.. important:: Percent-Encoding

   You must :wikipedia:`percent-encode <Percent-encoding>` a username and password before
   you include them in a MongoDB URI. You can use the ``rawurlencode()`` method to encode 

>    these values according to the URI syntax specified in RFC 3986. Don't percent-encode the

Reviewer: Did you mean to use the link you defined for "RFC 3986" below?

Author: We try to avoid inline links that aren't introduced, and since there's already one to Wikipedia I just linked in the list below

Reviewer: Oh, I missed that those were part of a list and assumed they were internal references that didn't get used. Disregard my earlier comment.

  client certificate and private key.
- ``authMechanism``: Set to ``'MONGODB-X509'``.

You can set these options in two ways: by passing an options array to the
``MongoDB\Client`` constructor or through parameters in your connection URI.

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: MongoDB\\Client
      :tabid: Client

      .. literalinclude:: /includes/authentication.php
         :language: php
         :dedent:
         :start-after: start-mongodb-X509-client
         :end-before: end-mongodb-X509-client

   .. tab:: Connection URI
      :tabid: connectionstring

      .. literalinclude:: /includes/authentication.php
         :language: php
         :dedent:
         :start-after: start-mongodb-X509-uri
         :end-before: end-mongodb-X509-uri

.. _php-mongodb-aws:

MONGODB-AWS
-----------

.. important::

   The MONGODB-AWS authentication mechanism requires {+mdb-server+} v4.4 or later.

The MONGODB-AWS authentication mechanism uses AWS IAM (Amazon Web Services Identity and
Access Management) or AWS Lambda credentials to authenticate your application. To use this
method to authenticate, you must specify ``'MONGODB-AWS'`` as the value of
the ``authMechanism`` connection option.

.. note::

>    The {+php-library+} uses the C driver's implementation of the MONGODB-AWS

Reviewer: Optional suggestion: We can refer to the C driver as "libmongoc". That may help readers since we talk about libmongoc and libmongocrypt as dependencies elsewhere in our docs, and then "driver" will only refer to PHP in these tutorials.

   authentication mechanism. To learn more about using this authentication mechanism
   with the C driver, see `Authentication via AWS IAM
   <https://www.mongodb.com/docs/languages/c/c-driver/current/libmongoc/authentication/#authentication-via-aws-iam>`__
   in the C documentation.

When you use the MONGODB-AWS mechanism, the C driver tries to retrieve AWS

> credentials from the following sources, in the order listed:

Reviewer: I think the note above about us relying on libmongoc is sufficient, so here you can just refer to "the driver" or "the PHP driver". Going forward, I don't think we need to discuss libmongoc at all and we can just talk about obtaining these options from Client construction (be it URI string or extra options) or environment variables.

1. Options parameter passed to the ``MongoDB\Client`` constructor or parameters in the
   connection URI
#. Environment variables
#. AWS EKS ``AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity`` request
#. ECS container metadata
#. EC2 instance metadata

The following sections describe how to retrieve credentials from
these sources and use them to authenticate your PHP application.

.. _php-mongodb-aws-credentials:

MongoDB\Client Credentials
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

First, the C driver checks whether you passed AWS credentials to the
``MongoDB\Client`` constructor, either as an options parameter or as part of the

> connection URI. To pass your credentials to ``MongoDB\Client``,

Reviewer: Consider:

> either as part of the connection string or `$uriOptions` array parameter

If "connection URI" is preferred, that's fine. I'd lead with talking about the first URI parameter, though, and then mention the options array.

``MongoDB\Client`` constructor or through a parameter in your connection URI.

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: MongoDB\\Client
      :tabid: Client

      .. literalinclude:: /includes/authentication.php
         :language: php
         :dedent:
         :start-after: start-mongodb-aws-env-client
         :end-before: end-mongodb-aws-env-client

   .. tab:: Connection URI
      :tabid: connectionstring

      .. literalinclude:: /includes/authentication.php
         :language: php
         :dedent:
         :start-after: start-mongodb-aws-env-uri
         :end-before: end-mongodb-aws-env-uri

.. tip:: AWS Lambda
   
   AWS Lambda runtimes can automatically set these environment variables during
   initialization. For more information about using environment variables in an AWS Lambda
   environment, see `Using Lambda environment variables
   <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/configuration-envvars.html#configuration-envvars-runtime>`__
   in the AWS documentation.

.. _php-mongodb-aws-oidc:

AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity Request
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If your application authenticates users for your EKS cluster from an OpenID Connect (OIDC)

> identity provider, the C driver can make an ``AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity`` request

Reviewer: Here I would just refer to "the driver", as the user doesn't really need to think about whether PHP or libmongoc is doing the heavy lifting. The PHP extension is a black box for them.

My earlier explanation about libmongoc and PHP was more to provide you context, and explain why we (the PHP team) don't have much knowledge about the AWS mechanisms.

environment and is configured correctly. To learn how to create and configure
an AWS config file, see `Configuration <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdkref/latest/guide/creds-config-files.html>`__
in the AWS documentation.

After you configure your environment for an ``AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity`` request,
set the ``authMechanism`` connection option to ``'MONGODB-AWS'``.
To view an example that sets the ``authMechanism`` option, see the :ref:`authMechanism example
<php-mongodb-aws-env-example>` on this page.

.. tip::

   For more information about using an ``AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity`` request to
   authenticate your application, see the following AWS documentation:

   - `Authenticating users for your cluster from an OpenID Connect identity provider
     <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/authenticate-oidc-identity-provider.html>`__
   - `AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity
     <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/STS/latest/APIReference/API_AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity.html>`__

.. _php-mongodb-aws-ecs:

ECS Metadata
~~~~~~~~~~~~

If your application runs in an Elastic Container Service (ECS) container,

> the C driver can automatically retrieve temporary AWS credentials from an

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the driver can automatically retrieve temporary AWS credentials from an
```

ECS endpoint. To do so, specify the URI of the ECS endpoint in an environment variable called
``AWS_CONTAINER_CREDENTIALS_RELATIVE_URI``. You can set this variable by running
the ``export`` shell command or adding it to your ``.env`` file, as shown in the following
example:

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: Shell Commands
      :tabid: shell

      .. code-block:: sh

         export AWS_CONTAINER_CREDENTIALS_RELATIVE_URI=<URI of the ECS endpoint>

   .. tab:: .env File
      :tabid: dotenv

      .. code-block:: php

         AWS_CONTAINER_CREDENTIALS_RELATIVE_URI=<URI of the ECS endpoint>

After you set the environment variable, set the ``authMechanism``
connection option to ``'MONGODB-AWS'``. To view an example that sets the
``authMechanism`` option, see the :ref:`authMechanism example
<php-mongodb-aws-env-example>` on this page.

.. _php-mongo-aws-ec2:

EC2 Instance Metadata
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The C driver can automatically retrieve temporary AWS credentials from an

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The driver can automatically retrieve temporary AWS credentials from an
```

  URI, if you include one. If you don't, it authenticates against the ``admin`` database.
- ``authMechanism``: Set to ``'SCRAM-SHA-256'``.

You can set these options in two ways: by passing an options array to the
``MongoDB\Client`` constructor or through parameters in your connection URI.

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: MongoDB\\Client
      :tabid: Client

      .. code-block:: php

         $options = [
             'username' => '<username>',
             'password' => '<password>',
             'authSource' => '<authentication database>',
             'authMechanism' => 'SCRAM-SHA-256',
         ];

         $client = new Client(
            'mongodb://<hostname>:<port>',
            $options,
         );

   .. tab:: Connection URI
      :tabid: connectionstring

      .. code-block:: php

         $uri = 'mongodb://<username>:<password>@<hostname>:<port>/?authSource=admin&authMechanism=SCRAM-SHA-256';
         $client = new Client($uri);

.. _php-scram-sha-1:

SCRAM-SHA-1
-----------

SCRAM-SHA-1, as defined by `RFC 5802 <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc5802>`__,
is the default authentication mechanism on MongoDB deployments

> running {+mdb-server+} v3.6.

Author: I kept the section but added a note about dropping v3.6 support. Also removed the code example.

You can set these options in two ways: by passing an options array to the
``MongoDB\Client`` constructor or through parameters in your connection URI.

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: MongoDB\\Client
      :tabid: Client

      .. code-block:: php

         $options = [
             'tls' => true,
             'tlsCertificateKeyFile' => '<file path>',
             'authMechanism' => 'MONGODB-X509',
         ];

         $client = new Client(
            'mongodb://<hostname>:<port>',
            $options,
         );

   .. tab:: Connection URI
      :tabid: connectionstring

      .. code-block:: php

         $uri = 'mongodb://<hostname>:<port>/?tls=true&tlsCertificateKeyFile=<file path>&authMechanism=MONGODB-X509';
         $client = new Client($uri);

.. _php-mongodb-aws:

MONGODB-AWS
-----------

.. important::

   The MONGODB-AWS authentication mechanism requires {+mdb-server+} v4.4 or later.

The MONGODB-AWS authentication mechanism uses AWS IAM (Amazon Web Services Identity and
Access Management) or AWS Lambda credentials to authenticate your application. To use this
method to authenticate, create a user with an associated Amazon Resource

> Name (ARN) on the ``$external`` database. Then, specify ``'MONGODB-AWS'`` as the value of

Reviewer: I have only a basic understanding of the `MONGODB-AWS` mechanism, but I don't think this is correct. `$external` is also the default auth source used by `MONGODB-X509`, and it implies that the credentials are coming from an external source. There is no actual database named `$external`.

In fact, MongoDB doesn't allow databases to include a "$" character (see: [Naming Restrictions](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/reference/limits/#naming-restrictions)).

I'll note that this text doesn't appear in the corresponding [PyMongo docs](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/languages/python/pymongo-driver/current/security/authentication/#mongodb-aws).

Author: This is based on the [C++ page](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/languages/cpp/cpp-driver/upcoming/security/authentication/#mongodb-aws) but my understanding of AWS auth and $external is also limited. I changed the wording to something more generic, but let me know your thoughts

Reviewer: The C driver page inconsistently says "`$external` virtual database" and "`$external` database". I think including "virtual" makes sense.

I see you removed all mention of "$external" in this tutorial, which seems ideal.

these sources and use them to authenticate your application.

.. _php-mongodb-aws-credentials:

MongoDB\Client Credentials
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

First, the {+php-library+} checks whether you passed AWS credentials
to the ``MongoDB\Client`` constructor, either as an options parameter or as part of the
connection URI. To pass your credentials to ``MongoDB\Client``,
set the following connection options:

- ``username``: The AWS IAM access key ID to authenticate. Percent-encode this value
  before including it in a connection URI.
- ``password``: The AWS IAM secret access key. Percent-encode this value before including
  it in a connection URI.
- ``authMechanism``: Set to ``'MONGODB-AWS'``.

You can set these options in two ways: by passing an options array to the
``MongoDB\Client`` constructor or through parameters in your connection URI.

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: MongoDB\\Client
      :tabid: Client

      .. code-block:: php

         $options = [
             'username' => '<AWS IAM access key ID>',
             'password' => '<AWS IAM secret access key>',
             'authMechanism' => 'MONGODB-AWS',
         ];

>          $client = new Client(

Reviewer: Same notes apply about the full class name and `$uriOptions`.

            'mongodb://<hostname>:<port>',
            $options,
         );

   .. tab:: Connection URI
      :tabid: connectionstring

      .. code-block:: php

         $uri = 'mongodb://<AWS IAM access key ID>:<AWS IAM secret access key>@<hostname>:<port>/?authMechanism=MONGODB-AWS';
         $client = new Client($uri);

.. _php-mongodb-aws-env-vars:

Environment Variables
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you don't provide a username and password when you construct your ``MongoDB\Client``
object, the {+php-library+} tries to retrieve AWS credentials from the following
environment variables:

- ``AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID``
- ``AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY``
- ``AWS_SESSION_TOKEN``

To use these environment variables to authenticate your application, first set them to the
AWS IAM values needed for authentication, as shown in the following code
example:

.. code-block:: sh

   export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=<AWS IAM access key ID>
   export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=<AWS IAM secret access key>

>    export AWS_SESSION_TOKEN=<AWS session token>

Reviewer: A shell script would certainly work if PHP is being launched as a CLI process, but I think this is less relevant for web applications. Most frameworks have their own method for managing env vars (e.g. [phpdotenv](https://github.com/vlucas/phpdotenv)).

[Symfony](https://symfony.com/doc/current/configuration.html#env-file-syntax) has its own implementation, and Laravel uses [phpdotenv](https://github.com/vlucas/phpdotenv) directly. The `.env` file should look the same for both frameworks:

```
AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=<AWS IAM access key ID>
AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=<AWS IAM secret access key>
AWS_SESSION_TOKEN=<AWS session token>
```

You can also wrap the values in double quotes if you like, although I believe that's only necessary if they contain spaces (not sure how relevant that is for these secrets).

It may make sense to present two tabs here. The shell example using `export` and a `.env` file.

.. important::
  
   Don't percent-encode the values in these environment variables.

After you set these environment variables, set the ``authMechanism``
connection option to ``'MONGODB-AWS'``.

.. _php-mongodb-aws-env-example:

Example
```````

The following example sets the ``authMechanism`` connection option. 
You can set this option in two ways: by passing an options array to the
``MongoDB\Client`` constructor or through a parameter in your connection URI.

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: MongoDB\\Client
      :tabid: Client

      .. code-block:: php

>          $client = new Client(

Reviewer: Comments about the full class name apply for both tabbed examples here.

            'mongodb://<hostname>:<port>',
            ['authMechanism' => 'MONGODB-AWS'],
         );

   .. tab:: Connection URI
      :tabid: connectionstring

      .. code-block:: php

>          $uri = 'mongodb://<hostname>:<port>/?&authMechanism=MONGODB-AWS';

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         $uri = 'mongodb://<hostname>:<port>/?authMechanism=MONGODB-AWS';
```

"&" is only a delimiter for sequential URI options. This would have been a parse error.

         $client = new Client($uri);

.. tip:: AWS Lambda
   
   AWS Lambda runtimes can automatically set these environment variables during
   initialization. For more information about using environment variables in an AWS Lambda
   environment, see `Using Lambda environment variables
   <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/configuration-envvars.html#configuration-envvars-runtime>`__

>    in the AWS documentation.

Reviewer: @GromNaN: I recall you tested the driver on Lambda, but I don't recall if it was a viable runtime (given our connection management). In your opinion, is it worth mentioning this here?

.. _php-mongodb-aws-oidc:

> AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity Request

Reviewer: Note: PHP doesn't test any of this, as we rely entirely on the C driver's implementation. See [PHPC-1895](https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/PHPC-1895) for more context.

I don't consider myself qualified to review this, but if the text applies to the C driver docs it should certainly work for us. And I assume that's the case since there's no PHP code here.

In all of these AWS examples, the _only_ thing handled by PHP is constructing the client object from a connection string and any URI options. The C driver handles all reading of AWS environment variables and any API requests like `AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity`.

Author: I added a note about this in the AWS intro section. Is it accurate to say that the C driver retrieves AWS credentials from each source in this section?

Reviewer: When the Manager and Client constructors receive their connection string (`$uri`) and extra options (`$uriOptions`), we pass the connection string directly to libmongoc for parsing and then iteratively apply each field in `$uriOptions` to the parsed URI object. That object is then used to create the libmongoc client.

For that reason, I wouldn't suggest any language about the "C driver" doing anything with a Client constructor. The intro section note about PHP relying on libmongoc for AWS auth mechanisms seems sufficient, and then we can just refer to the PHP driver in subsequent sections. The link to the C driver docs for AWS auth is helpful, so thanks for adding that.

in the AWS documentation.

After you configure your environment for an ``AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity`` request,
set the ``authMechanism`` connection option to ``'MONGODB-AWS'``.
To view an example that sets the ``authMechanism`` option, see the :ref:`authMechanism example
<php-mongodb-aws-env-example>` on this page.

.. tip::

   For more information about using an ``AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity`` request to
   authenticate your application, see the following AWS documentation:

   - `Authenticating users for your cluster from an OpenID Connect identity provider
     <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/authenticate-oidc-identity-provider.html>`__
   - `AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity
     <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/STS/latest/APIReference/API_AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity.html>`__

.. _php-mongodb-aws-ecs:

ECS Metadata
~~~~~~~~~~~~

If your application runs in an Elastic Container Service (ECS) container,
the {+php-library+} can automatically retrieve temporary AWS credentials from an
ECS endpoint. To do so, specify the URI of the ECS endpoint in an environment variable called
``AWS_CONTAINER_CREDENTIALS_RELATIVE_URI``, as shown in the following example:

> .. code-block:: sh

Reviewer: Consider tabbed examples for the shell and `.env` files.

``authMechanism`` option, see the :ref:`authMechanism example
<php-mongodb-aws-env-example>` on this page.

.. _php-mongo-aws-ec2:

EC2 Instance Metadata
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The {+driver-short+} can automatically retrieve temporary AWS credentials from an
Amazon Elastic Cloud Compute (EC2) instance. To use temporary credentials from
within an EC2 instance, set the ``authMechanism`` connection option to ``'MONGODB-AWS'``.
To view an example that sets the ``authMechanism`` option, see the :ref:`authMechanism example
<php-mongodb-aws-env-example>` on this page.

.. note::

   The {+php-library+} retrieves credentials from an EC2 instance only if the
   environment variables described in the :ref:`php-mongodb-aws-env-vars` section
   are not set.

Additional Information
----------------------

To learn more about creating a ``MongoDB\Client`` object in the {+php-library+},
see the :ref:`php-client` guide.

API Documentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To learn more about the ``MongoDB\Client`` class, see :phpclass:`MongoDB\Client` 
in the library API documentation.

To view a full list of URI options that you can pass to a ``MongoDB\Client``, see

> `MongoDB\\Driver\\Manager::__construct Parameters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`MongoDB\\Driver\\Manager::__construct() Parameters
```

Your call, but I think the parentheses are warranted if we're referring the constructor function.

Author: agreed

   these values. To learn more, see `rawurlencode <{+php-manual+}/rawurlencode>`__ in
   the PHP manual.

   Don't percent-encode the username or password when passing them to the
   ``MongoDB\Client`` constructor.

.. _php-scram-sha-256:

SCRAM-SHA-256
-------------

SCRAM-SHA-256, as defined by `RFC 7677 <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7677>`__,
is the default authentication mechanism on MongoDB deployments
running {+mdb-server+} v4.0 or later.

To authenticate with this mechanism, set the following connection options:

- ``username``: The username to authenticate. Percent-encode this value before including
  it in a connection URI.
- ``password``: The password to authenticate. Percent-encode this value before including
  it in a connection URI.
- ``authSource``: The MongoDB database to authenticate against. By default, the
  {+php-library+} authenticates against the database in the connection
  URI, if you include one. If you don't, it authenticates against the ``admin`` database.
- ``authMechanism``: Set to ``'SCRAM-SHA-256'``.

You can set these options in two ways: by passing an options array to the

> ``MongoDB\Client`` constructor or through parameters in your connection string.

Reviewer 2: S: Use "connection URI" to be consistent with rest of page. Applies throughout

```suggestion
``MongoDB\Client`` constructor or through parameters in your connection URI.
```

.. tabs::

>    .. tab:: MongoDB\Client

Reviewer 2: Showing up with only one slash. Applies throughout. I think this should work:

```suggestion
   .. tab:: MongoDB\\Client
```

mechanism uses this certificate to authenticate the client.

To authenticate with this mechanism, set the following connection options:

- ``tls``: Set to ``true``.
- ``tlsCertificateKeyFile``: The file path of the ``.pem`` file that contains your
  client certificate and private key.
- ``authMechanism``: Set to ``'MONGODB-X509'``.

You can set these options in two ways: by passing an options array to the
``MongoDB\Client`` constructor or through parameters in your connection string.

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: MongoDB\Client
      :tabid: Client

      .. code-block:: php

         $options = [
             'tls' => true,
             'tlsCertificateKeyFile' => '<file path>',
             'authMechanism' => 'MONGODB-X509',
         ];

         $client = new Client(
            'mongodb://<hostname>:<port>',
            $options,
         );

   .. tab:: Connection String
      :tabid: connectionstring

      .. code-block:: php

         $uri = 'mongodb://<hostname>:<port>/?tls=true&tlsCertificateKeyFile=<file path>&authMechanism=MONGODB-X509';
         $client = new Client($uri);

.. _php-mongodb-aws:

MONGODB-AWS
-----------

.. important::

>    The MONGODB-AWS authentication mechanism requires MongoDB v4.4 or later.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   The MONGODB-AWS authentication mechanism requires {+mdb-server+} v4.4 or later.
```

The MONGODB-AWS authentication mechanism uses AWS IAM (Amazon Web Services Identity and

> Access Management) or AWS Lambda credentials to authenticate your application. To
> authenticate using this mechanism, first create a user with an associated Amazon Resource

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Access Management) or AWS Lambda credentials to authenticate your application. To
use this mechanism to authenticate, first create a user with an associated Amazon Resource
```

> Name (ARN) on the ``$external`` database, then specify ``'MONGODB-AWS'`` as the value of
> the ``authMechanism`` connection option.

Reviewer 2: S:

```suggestion
Name (ARN) on the ``$external`` database. Then, specify ``'MONGODB-AWS'`` as the value of
the ``authMechanism`` connection option.
```

When you use the MONGODB-AWS mechanism, the {+php-library+} tries to retrieve AWS
credentials from the following sources, in the order listed:

1. Options parameter passed to the ``MongoDB\Client`` constructor or parameters in the
   connection URI
#. Environment variables
#. AWS EKS ``AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity`` request
#. ECS container metadata
#. EC2 instance metadata

The following sections describe how to use the {+php-library+} to retrieve credentials from
these sources and use them to authenticate your application.

.. _php-mongodb-aws-credentials:

> ``MongoDB\Client`` Credentials

Reviewer 2: The Style Guide technically prohibits using monospace in titles and headings (though I think this is a bad rule)

```suggestion
MongoDB\Client Credentials
```

Author: agreed (but fixed)

connection option to ``'MONGODB-AWS'``.

.. _php-mongodb-aws-env-example:

Example
```````

The following example sets the ``authMechanism`` connection option. 
You can set this option in two ways: by passing an options array to the
``MongoDB\Client`` constructor or through a parameter in your connection string.

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: MongoDB\Client
      :tabid: Client

      .. code-block:: php

         $client = new Client(
            'mongodb://<hostname>:<port>',
            ['authMechanism' => 'MONGODB-AWS'],
         );

   .. tab:: Connection String
      :tabid: connectionstring

      .. code-block:: php

         $uri = 'mongodb://<hostname>:<port>/?&authMechanism=MONGODB-AWS';
         $client = new Client($uri);

.. tip:: AWS Lambda
   
   AWS Lambda runtimes can automatically set these environment variables during
   initialization. For more information about using environment variables in an AWS Lambda
   environment, see `Using Lambda environment variables
   <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/configuration-envvars.html#configuration-envvars-runtime>`__
   in the AWS documentation.

.. _php-mongodb-aws-oidc:

> ``AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity`` Request

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity Request
```

.. _php-mongodb-aws-ecs:

ECS Metadata
~~~~~~~~~~~~

If your application runs in an Elastic Container Service (ECS) container,
the {+php-library+} can automatically retrieve temporary AWS credentials from an
ECS endpoint. To do so, specify the URI of the ECS endpoint in an environment variable called
``AWS_CONTAINER_CREDENTIALS_RELATIVE_URI``, as shown in the following example:

.. code-block:: sh

   export AWS_CONTAINER_CREDENTIALS_RELATIVE_URI=<URI of the ECS endpoint>

After you set the environment variable, set the ``authMechanism``
connection option to ``'MONGODB-AWS'``. To view an example that sets the
``authMechanism`` option, see the :ref:`authMechanism example
<php-mongodb-aws-env-example>` on this page.

.. _php-mongo-aws-ec2:

EC2 Instance Metadata
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The {+driver-short+} can automatically retrieve temporary AWS credentials from an
Amazon Elastic Cloud Compute (EC2) instance. To use temporary credentials from
within an EC2 instance, set the ``authMechanism`` connection option to ``'MONGODB-AWS'``.
To view an example that sets the ``authMechanism`` option, see the :ref:`authMechanism example
<php-mongodb-aws-env-example>` on this page.

.. note::

>    If you set any of the environment variables from the preceding AWS authentication
>    methods, the {+php-library+} attempts to retrieve credentials by using those
>    methods before attempting to retrieve them from an EC2 instance. To attempt
>    to retrieve credentials only from an EC2 instance, ensure that the
>    environment variables are not set.

Reviewer 2: S: confusing use of "method"

```suggestion
   The {+php-library+} retrieves credentials from an EC2 instance only if the
   environment variables described earlier in this section are not set.
```

Consider linking to that earlier section, too
